so let's start off and talk about the
economy a little bit and obviously we've
been on a good long run here a very long
run and yet does that surprise you and
what would be the signs that you would
look for to see the things we're winding
down well I look at a lot of figures
just in connection with our businesses I
I like to get numbers not so so I'm
getting reports in weekly in some
businesses uh that but that doesn't tell
me what the economy's gonna do six
months from now or three months from now
it tells me what's going on now with our
businesses and it really doesn't make
any difference in what I do today in
terms of buying stocks are buying
businesses what those numbers tell me
they're interesting but they're not
they're not guidance to me
if we buy business we're gonna older
forever so we're gonna have good your
bad years in between years may be a
disastrous year something here and and
we care a lot about the price we do not
care about the next 12 months I've been
surprised by all kinds of things in the
last ten years about the economy I mean
I I don't think there was any economists
I've ever read that talked about
negative interest rates for long periods
of time I mean if you go back and read
Keynes or a you read Samuelson you read
any of it they do not get into a
negative rate environment I think now
there's still 11 trillion that's of
government debt around the world that's
it a negative rate so we've never seen
it before and we've never seen at least
the conventional wisdom Otto this is
same period of long and growing deficits
while the economy is getting better
extremely low interest rates and really
very little inflation so something
difference happening but something
difference happens all the time so and
that's one reason economic predictions
just don't enter into our decisions
Charlie Munger my partner I in you know
54 years now we've never made a decision
based on an economic prediction women we
make business predictions about
individual businesses will do overtime
and we compare that to
what we have to pay for but we have
never said yes to something because we
thought the economy was going to do well
in the next year or two years and we've
never said no to anything because we
were right in the middle of a panic even
if the price was right well I pay none
in the sense of as a guideline to doing
anything it's entertainment I mean you
know it's like going to a variety show
or something like that but and I just
don't know of any economist that that
actually is what business is
successfully as successfully or done
well in stocks Paul Samuelson deadness
me know he was a big shareholder burger
but it's you know they make guesses and
though there's so many variables I mean
in in the hard sciences you know you
know that you know if an Apple falls
from a tree that it isn't gonna change
over the centuries because of anything
or political developments or 400 other
variables that go in but when you get
into economics there's so many variables
and and the truth is you've got to
expect good times and bad times in
business and if you if you were to buy
an auto dealership and you're you know
wherever you live locally or Donald's
franchise or anything like that you
wouldn't try and time the purchase you
try and make the right purchase at the
right price and you want to be sure you
got a good business but you wouldn't
settle it by it because growth this
year's gonna be 3% instead of 2.8
percent or something the sword Berkshire
does it depends on a personal situation
if you're working in something where
you're living off your your your
paycheck from week to week
you want to have a little cash or how
long then and you certainly don't want
to have a credit card that's maxed out
or anything like that but if you know if
your house is paid off if you don't have
big living expenses
you got a portfolio of of decent
diversified businesses we need any cash
yeah yeah I've got responsibilities you
know we've got insurance claims we could
have hurricanes that you know would
happen all kinds of things we might have
to pay up billions of dollars and I've
got over a million people that own
shares that are coming up run the place
so we get through periods like that but
if I were retired I had a say a million
dollar portfolio stocks that was paying
me 30,000 a year in dividends or
something of the sort and my children
were growing the house was paid off of
everything
you know I wouldn't worry too much about
having a lot of cash room you have a
forty five billion dollar state how
closely do you follow the company you
know people are concerned they haven't
really introduced any new products well
if you have to closely follow our
company you shouldn't own it yeah no I
made it I mean if you if you buy a
business did you buy a farm you know you
go up and look you know every couple
weeks to see how far the corn is up and
you know you worry too much about
whether somebody says this is gonna be a
year of low prices because the exports
are being affected or anything like that
you know you buy a farm and you hold it
for I got one farm that I bought in the
1980s and my son runs it but I've been
there once you know I mean it it it
doesn't grow faster if I go and stare at
it you know I can't cheer for it you
know and I know there's gonna be some
years when prices are gonna be good and
some when the prices aren't gonna be
good I know those years when yields will
be better than others but about the farm
and
if it just and I don't care about
economic predictions on or anything of
the sort I would do care that over over
the years it's well tended to in terms
of rotating crops and I hope yields get
better which they generally have in fact
that farm a hundred years ago what about
wood produced 30 bushels maybe 35
bushels of corn per acre now on a good
year you know it'd be 200 I mean we've
really made progress in this country
that's one reason commodity prices and
go back a couple hundred years they've
moved so little is because we've just
gotten better and better
whether it's cotton or whether it's corn
or so it beans are all kinds of things
and you and I benefited from that well
it's it's a it's a long-term investment
and if you owned if you own the best
auto dealership in town the best brand
and headed something good running it
wouldn't drop by every day and say you
know how many people have come in today
or you know I think interest rates are
going up a little maybe it'll slow down
our sales or they know you buy it
knowing there's 365 days a year and
you're gonna own it for 20 years so
that's seventy three hundred days and
you know they're gonna things are gonna
be different from day to day and you're
dear you shouldn't buy it up the day to
day stuff that's important you can see
that between December 13th and 24th it
looks like you guys bought back about
two hundred and thirty three million
dollars worth of berkshire which was
right near that particular stock market
bottom how did you know that well is
going through your mind if I knew it
that's not a big purchase for us
actually and and now we will by
Berkshire won't have lots of excess cash
all the needs of the business are taken
care of we spent fourteen billion
dollars on property plant equipment last
year way more than the depreciation so
we take care of the needs of the
business then we have excess cash and if
we find investment with
to do is find other businesses to buy it
but if our stock if I think the stock
and my partner in Charlie Munger think
the stock is selling below intrinsic
business value we will buy in stock well
we thought so yeah yeah but you know
what's really intriguing is this is when
it goes down a lot I mean when you're
buying down our bills for for 60 or 70
cents which periodically you get a
chance to do in stocks then you know you
know it assuming you've got the the cash
you don't want ever you know get so that
that some some surprise could really
take you out in some way but if we've
got excess cash will buy as fast as we
can yeah yeah exactly
but it's you know if you and I own a
McDonald's franchise together and it's
worth a million dollars and you own 50%
of it you come to me and you say I'll
sell out four hundred thousand you know
I'll buy out you say six hundred but you
want six hundred thousand I'll just come
back tomorrow
Sanders legislate when companies can do
buybacks and then also there's was a
report recently about executives doing
insider trading it appears around the
times of buy back so our buybacks are
kind of a problem well you'll have some
people that misbehave and respect them
any activity I made so the really
wouldn't have much to do it buybacks I
think buybacks the degree to which
they've been part of nefarious activity
and I've observed them for a lot of
years and are very close to zero but
that just made me the throne of
opportunities but Mical did not I didn't
follow the conclusion on it I mean
you're distributing money to
shareholders essentially you can do buy
dividends and presumably American
business
distribute money to its owners
occasionally and we do it we do it
through buybacks or we've done some and
we don't do it through dividends and but
most companies do it through having a
dividend policy and then if they have
but they'd be on the needs of the
business and I think if their stock is
underpriced that it makes nothing but
sense well they do restrict you a little
in terms of if you're some general rule
of the SEC if you're having some kind of
this isn't quite the right word but
manipulative activity or anything like
that in the stock but no I don't think
that I don't think the government should
decide your dividend policy I don't even
think they should direct your capital
investments they can make it enticing to
make certain kinds of it does capital
investments which they do with renewable
energy for example I mean the government
has interest in fostering certain
developments in this country over time
and they do they should be a special oil
depletion allowance you know fifty years
ago one so on that that was more
politics than it was governmental policy
but certainly renewables are a prime
example of that but the idea of decided
of directing whether you are entitled to
return cash to shareholders and the
manner in which you do it I don't think
really makes a lot of sense the 2020
it's it's hard to win with just a
billionaire vote but I admire my
normally I wish you had run I want to be
very clear to questions is the business
executive the right kind of person to be
President and what characteristics do
you look for well I think a business
executive can be the right person but no
I don't think that because they're a
business executive that that you give
them extra points
and number one I want to I want a
president that wakes up every morning
and and realizes that the greatest
threat to a country which has got all
kinds of things going for it weapons of
mass destruction and that we live in a
world where people organizations and
occasionally countries could have people
that would like to wipe out a large
percentage of the American people or
maybe other countries as well and that
you now have capabilities which I always
thought recently I might classify it as
a nuclear chemical and biological but I
think you have to add cyber now you know
you have some evil genius someplace that
that crazy reasons just like it happened
with anthrax back you know who knows
what motivates somebody that starts
sending to them
anthrax letters and if you have somebody
that thinks that'd be great to send a
false alarm to the Soviet to the
Russians and to the US that the other
side was launching or something of the
sort you know it's it's it's a very very
dangerous world it's a wonderful world
but it has dangers now that started in
August of 1945 and 1/9 Stein said you
know this changes everything in the
world except how men think and so I want
a president that has that same filter
that all of these other things are
important but protecting the country and
reducing the chance of successful use of
weapons of mass destruction against us
is the number-one job and I think I
think most of the presidents I've talked
to a couple other than over the years
and I I really think that they do
realize they may get lost in the events
of every day as they go along and then
beyond that I want a president that has
two objectives with the economy one is
to make sure that there's marvelous
goofs we have keep laying more golden
eggs and then I want a president that
also feels that if GDP is $60,000 per
capita in the United States that nobody
should get left behind we've got a
market system that works
obviously in turning out more goods and
services better ones
year after year done it all through my
life it does not it also has the as they
said we have a system that the people
who don't fit the market system in terms
of their talents they may have been
perfectly good to land on the beaches of
Normandy and all of that sort of thing
but they don't have them they just don't
have that kind of talent just like I
don't have any athletic talent you know
I mean I had to live in an athletic
universe you could train me eight hours
a day and I could read elegantly I'm not
good I just gathered in fumble the ball
or whatever what happens so so we have
to take care of the people that the
market system doesn't take care of while
it's spewing out huge riches for the
people who do fit well and and that can
be done would you ever talk to well
don't tell me what I want to hear I want
to hear what they tell people who
disagree with him on the subject I I
always like to ask a candidate they
usually finessed me somewhere no but I
say what are you for that the majority
of your followers are against you know I
know you really believe in that and
that's reading the test but I'm not sure
that except under some kind of sodium
pentathol or something if I really want
to get and then so that's why Bernie
Sanders was so successful I made 90% of
people voted for Bernie Sanders had
probably not heard of him two years
earlier but they felt that they knew
exactly they probably knew exactly what
he would do I mean they probably was
authentic and and if you asked him you
know what he was for that most people
might be against he would tell you you
know I'd rather learn from other
people's mistakes actually
was that a mistake but we'll find out
over time but but we did pay too much in
my view for for craft we didn't pay too
much for Heinz so when we started out it
was originally a non-public partnership
between us and but we did paid too much
in my view for craft and there's not
much you can do about things if you pay
too much and secondly there's always
been a struggle between the retailer and
brands I mean if if I've got a terribly
weak brand and I want to get into
Walmart I'm not gonna be able to do it
you know I mean all for all kinds of
crazy concessions you know that and I
want to be in Walmart if I got I have
some sort of super packaged goods the
negotiation is way different if you have
something essential versus non-essential
ten years ago Costco tried to get rid of
coca-cola Costco's got terrific loyalty
among customers and you know and and
their own Kirkland brand is a thirty
nine billion dollar brand now and it
moved from category to category and they
only started in 1992 so they they know
brands and they and but in the end they
put coca-cola back in if it's been royal
crown Cola put it back in so there's
always that struggle between the brands
I mean and there always will be but the
retailer's net it has been moving in
their direction particularly I think
because of the Amazon revolution Walmart
Walmart yeah I mean but it's been
accentuated I think we have a new
retailing environment now I mean it
it's like it goes from night today but
it it moves someone and and brands that
people who spend billions of dollars
developing and sponsoring TV shows or
sponsoring radio shows in the old
Campbell Soup was always on there with
Jack Benny or something you know when I
was a kid and
begum and it built brands and people
like obviously like the product too but
people are more willing to change and
it's harder yet it's it's a somewhat
different world than what it is night
and day I mean you were very unlikely to
keep changing brands every day but it
really surprised me that that Gillette
lost position I mean I men don't like
men don't like to experiment much I went
women are better experimenting but you
know if a kid when you were a kid to
Gillette cavalcade of sports was your
pal and brought you the Rose Bowl and on
the World Series and all that sort of
thing you didn't just shave would you
let the rest of your life and you still
do to a great degree but it's not
exactly the same as it was even five
years ago or so a listing of the richest
people in America came out he's number
one I think your friend Bill Gates is
number two you're number three so you
can see what he's done in myriad ways
now and of course the question is how
come you have a body is there still time
to buy what you still buy oh I always
admired Jeff I mean I met him 20 years
ago or so and and I thought he was
something special but I didn't realize
you could go from books to it what's
happened there no I I mean he had a
vision and executed in an incredible way
something that but there's a lot of
games I miss I would have missed you
know I would have missed Microsoft even
if I got in to know Bill earlier or
something those just aren't my games I
don't worry about the things that I miss
that are outside my circle of competence
of evaluating I I do I have miss things
who are within my circle and that's a
terrible mistake
those are my biggest mistakes you
haven't seen them and but I don't it's
not a mistake because I miss Netscape or
something like that at all there I would
say that maybe 5% of the companies or
10% of the companies that most are
within an area my circle of confidence
something I should be able to understand
I want to get back to that trend thing
you were just talking about how do you
recognize when a giant trend is over and
you know you're right obviously that
over time things don't change that much
but sometimes they do like newspapers
was a business that you admired for so
long it's not a good business no news
newspapers went if you're the only one
in town in other words some competitive
situations but it was survival of the
fattest whichever whichever paper was
the fattest one because it had the most
ads in it and ads or news to people I
mean they they want to know what what
super mark is having the bargain on Coke
or Pepsi this weekend and so on I mean
if it upsets the people in the newsroom
to talk that way but but the ads were
the most important editorial content
from the standpoint of the reader
overall in any big day I mean if you
were looking for a job you had one place
but basically to look and that was the
classified section if you were looking
for a apartment to rent and in those
those those pages were just dozens and
dozens of pages that's that's
disappeared I mean the essential things
that are essentially you news is what
you don't know that you want to know and
you know what happened in national
sports you know the moment it happens
and you can go watch video of it and so
on you can go to F channel ESPN and see
what's going on you know what's
happening in politics you know what it's
happening in the stock market I used to
look at the stock market pages the next
morning you don't want to before I
delivered the papers I checked them out
the world has changed hugely and and it
did it gradually went from monopoly to
franchise the competitive to toast know
they're disappearing they're going to
disappear newer times won't the
Washington Post won't the Wall Street
Journal wall all right a little bit and
corporate debt people are concerned
about people are concerned about
at 22 trillion dollars should we reduce
let's just say the federal data and how
would we do it well if you're running a
deficit getting close to 5% when things
are really good you know that's a new
world I'm and nobody neither the
Republicans are Democrats you're
particularly concerned about it and
we're not having a lot of inflation that
wasn't supposed to happen
you know but it's happening that's why I
say you know really you don't want to
get hung up on trying to make economic
analysis because nobody's any good go
down nobody you don't get rich doing
that if you look at invention that
Forbes list if you get on the list the
number of people have done that by
economic analysis I think you're just
about zilch on there well it's going the
other way but I think I think I think
the Earned Income Tax Credit is the best
way to put money in the pockets of
people that don't fit well into the
market system but that are perfectly
decent citizens and that a made a good
bit of the success of somebody like I've
had the burger or something possible it
would have happened without the America
we have and if you go back go back 200
years and we're all working out 80% of
us are working on farms the person
that's the best of that working in that
farm whatever it may be is worth maybe
twice the ones that's the worst you know
I mean that's the difference between
super talent and no talent in the farm
economy picking cotton or whatever it
may be
now if you're the best middleweight
fighter in the world you know you may
get twenty or thirty million dollars and
and and if you are just a good citizen
raise nice kids helping the neighborhood
and everything else but you don't have
market related skills you'd be you'd be
good on that farm stone and you would be
earning something comparable but most of
the people around you
but you don't have something now that as
it gets more and more specialized and
it's gonna continue to get more
specialized you want two things for that
person you want them have a decent life
I mean they live in a country with
60,000 of GDP per person you want them
to you want them to have a decent life
and they can I hope I also think you
want them to have a feeling of
accomplishment so you wanted to have a
job assuming that they're not
handicapped in some way you wanted to
have a job but the minimum wage would be
one way and say well we'll make sure
that they haven't I'm wearing their
pocket but that's got a lot of effects
in disturbing the market system they
just need more cash they don't need a
higher wage they need more cash in their
pocket and and the government at a
relatively low cost can provide a decent
living for any but it's living that's
working forty hours a week and has a
couple of children and we've gone in
that direction and it's sort of
bipartisan I mean yeah I find both
Republicans and Democrats for I think it
would be a better not to have one annual
payment you know odd that they get it
monthly and I think there's various
things you could do but you want it you
want them to feel part of the system and
you want to get them have them get as as
more and more of these golden eggs or
late you want them to get get a little
more of their share you want you want
more money in the pockets of every and
everybody's willing to work or is unable
to work and and we can do it a rich
family would do that you know I had six
or seven kids and I had some business I
wanted to pass on you know you'd pick
the most able person to run it because
that's the market system to do that but
you make sure that on all seven of the
family participated you can get more
than abundant you might get more to the
one that that that kept producing the
golden eggs you would but you wouldn't
just say to the other the one at the
lowest end who might be the best kid of
all and in most respects you know he's
the one that shares with everybody you
wouldn't it would say to that
ever that you know too bad but that's
just where the market system works you
know go guy your have your spouse get a
job and for housing someplace no no no I
didn't worry about a name we could have
gone on there's no name operation for
ten years now that is we got a wonderful
partnership in the sense that it's got
long it's large and has reasonable
market muscle with them more than a
million employees one of the three of us
we've got three CEOs that can make
things get done in organizations that
are so big that normally that they would
get very bureaucratic on you know I mean
if you try to do this with many big
companies you have it up legal weighing
and you know and and public relations
weighing you know we don't have any of
that stuff they may have them in certain
areas but but I don't but Jamie isn't
worried about doing that sort of thing
and then at neither's Jeff so so we've
got a unity of commitment and an ability
to execute on the commitment the only
problem is you've got a three point four
trillion dollar industry which is as
much as the federal government raises
every year that that basically is feels
pretty good about the system they as we
went around talking to people to find a
leader for the group for example you
know everybody says you know the system
you know it turns out very good medicine
but you can't go from five percent of
GDP to eighteen you know without without
really making you less competitive among
other things in the world so everybody
thought the system needed some
adjustment just not their part of the
system and and that's very human I do
the same thing I'm sure if I was in the
same place so it's there's an enormous
resistance to change while a similar
acknowledgement the change is will be
needed and of course if the private
sector doesn't supply that over a period
of time
you know people will say them you know
we give up we gotta turn those over they
got ruined which would be even worse
todd todd really does all the work at
art but if this works you have the
credit from the from the berkshires dad
talked to him once or twice I'll tell
you one interesting story about about
him though and I think it was a 2010 you
know I've got a partner Charlie Munger
who's 95 now but we both read The New
Yorker but we don't talk about it and
and one day I I'm talking to Charlie and
I say I read this terrific article my
thought I'd never heard of before
probably don't know how to pronounce his
name that I said ah oh he says I sent
him a check for $20,000 that article is
best article I read a long time so I
just thought you know get paid that much
for being a writer he actually just said
I'm off a check so two guys 1,500 miles
apart both regarded that as one of the
most interesting informative articles we
read and similarly we follow them
subsequently a man but it wasn't my well
it is true that that if you read if you
read three or four thousand words by
somebody on an important subject and
they really give you some insights or
some factual background or something
that you haven't seen in years and years
of reading about it I mean they they
should make an impression I mean other
people have made an impression how major
their writing time no no I I don't plan
the plan is is to support a very very
very good thinker on this subject who's
once is a practicing physician and who
commands the respect of the medical
community to in effect figure out some
way so that we can deliver even better
care and
have people feel better about their care
too I mean they have to perceive the
third receiving better care over time
and and and stop the March upward of
cost relative to the country's output
but if you take 18 cents out of every
dollar that you know of output in the
United States and say it's going into
health
that leaves 82 cents and other countries
are are doing it for 10 or 11 cents when
if you go back to 1970 all of us were
doing it for around 5 cents so we
started from a fairly similar point
compared to major industrial countries
and it just keeps going up and and last
year a corporate tax cut was put in for
something that was 2% of GDP
roughly and people said can't be
competitive we have this 2% cost you
know versus the rest of the world and
there's something that basically
corporations paying a very big way and
it's it goes to 18 and I say it is a
tapeworm of the US economy with the
that's such a wonderful economy we can
do some very expensive things I mean but
and but that doesn't mean we should you
have a rich family you still want to be
as efficient as you can on things
generally that's not the way all rich
families feel but and that's it just
makes sense we all know we've got this
incredible economic machine but but we
shouldn't we shouldn't be spending 18%
when other countries are doing something
pretty Compal in terms of doctors per
capita hospital beds per capita all the
very top stuff in medicine I think is
very much concentrated in this country
and that's great I want us to be the
leader but I just don't I think we're
paying a price if we're paying 7 extra
points of GDP that's 1.4 trillion a year
I mean they they're trying
and and Congress generally I mean he
took the average congressman they read
they regard as a problem and and they
made and they see specific instances you
know of drug prices or something like
that but it's a big problem to change I
mean the trouble is it intersects in so
many ways and that and that's why we've
got Kewanee heading it and we've got
three three good-sized organizations
backing him we're not trying to do it to
make money I mean that is there's not a
goal that we end up with some business
that that we make money off of well be
talking to everybody but it's it is his
game plan is not something we're trying
to try and lay out because it it's in
his head to some degree I mean obviously
we we selected him by by hearing and and
reading and so on what he's done but
he'll learn is we always work well we
will conduct certain experiments or he
will you know and and try out a
community where one of us has a lot of
employees maybe and there's various ways
to experiment learn a few things from
your yeah but I want to ask you about
you talked about the disparity in value
between stakes and companies and
wholesale takeovers so that you are
looking maybe to buy positions and
stocks rather than buying whole
companies because of the price
differential why do you why is that
exist what can you explain that well
generally speaking when companies are
sold they sell it premiums now it's not
a premiums because the the buyer thinks
they can do all kinds of wonderful
things with it that the president
management isn't doing I've often said
that you know on the fortune 500 maybe
250 company should buy the other 250 and
they just totally shift every year
because everybody thinks they can run it
better than the next guy which is what
you're saying when you when you buy it
in its entirety I don't think we running
running when we buy it so it's it's hard
for me to get to a premium and the
premiums have gotten
more dramatic and the leverage available
has gotten pretty generous and that
causes people to buy people love to buy
but they can't pay for it basically and
some of the also put up the money and
and we don't we don't calculate leverage
into any of our purchases in other words
we don't say if we buy this thing for 10
billion we can borrow 7 billion against
it because we're really using a
berkshires general credit I mean I could
apply 70% leverage to any one of our
companies make it look better but the
truth is it's the general credit of
Berkshire that's doing that so it would
be crazy to just because I want to buy
something say well I'm buying this with
70 percent leverage so therefore I can
pay this kind of silly price but when
when when the CEO well you've got a huge
bundle of money that's committed to
buying something they're getting paid a
fee tick-tick-tick every day to buy it
now they do get paid whether they buy it
or not things are not to some extent
which is kind of an interesting business
approach but they do but they also let's
just say there's a trillion dollars out
there and to do it I don't know the
figure but beyond that they're probably
they probably took two trillion of
leverage they probably use two thirds
leverage if they couldn't to purchase
something close to that so you really
got like three trillion of maybe
purchasing power using these assumptions
which I know aren't correct but they're
in the general ballpark
well three trillion there's only 30
trillion of US companies roughly and and
you know you can take Amazon and Apple
and Berkshire and they aren't for sales
so you got trillions that aren't so the
the demand supply is really really
tilted and it works a hundred percent
against us because that you know
whenever whenever you've got somebody
that gets paid for the upside and and
locks up the money for ten years you
know or so they've got every incentive
to keep doing that twenty twenty years
ago I had a fellow call me whose name
you would know and he said morning I
don't know anything about the
reinsurance business and he said we've
got this reinsurance
they offered to us and big one and he
said tell me what I should be looking at
and I had I went through a little bit of
it I said but you're not gonna learn
that much about the reinsurance business
by a phone call with me and that you
know yeah and Wyatt Wyatt while you're
looking at this and he he said well he
said we got to get the money invested in
the next three monster we have to give
it back you know and and that's his
equation you know and he's getting and
once he buys that company he's got a
feed built in for five years or whatever
it may be and he's got some of the
upside he'd like upside but if it
doesn't work out he still makes a lot
it's very very rich by anybody's
standards so it's it's tough to compete
with that but probably 50 years ago I
looked at a few bargains causation but
but I mean I read a lot and you know
what happened yesterday but you remember
the old stuff business you've got a lot
of interesting quotations in your head I
was looking at the New York Times stock
boy it was I think three bucks in 2009
it's 30 bucks today and noticing I think
very well it's it's been reported and it
was in it's in this book that just just
came out by the former editor there's
just a little references yeah hills book
and and and it's just touched on there
but they were in trouble a lot of
companies were in trouble then
now they really they've hit on something
online I mean they were late to the game
on the online thing compared to the
journal but but they're they're really
moving in and I know and they should be
I mean they they've got they've got the
natural franchise for that
and so their economic models worked out
and I shouldn't go into any more detail
history well it was ringing something
but it yeah it was ringing enough I'll
put it that way I mean I ran out of
money before it quit ringing yeah I was
too early actually if you look back I
was very active in the last half of
September and early October and then I
wrote that article in later October and
I knew it was gonna get bad I wrote the
articles gonna get bad but I didn't
think the stock market would react as
much as it did between then and March so
I I had more or less used up our powder
well before the bottom was hit
interesting how have you avoided not
getting back in well actually I think
Larry actually doing a good job I mean
that's a only made the other day did a
Danaher yeah Larry whole but to Danaher
is a good sale and I think he's his
priorities are straight and I think he's
I just I just read the interview he did
about two days you know a few days ago
and he is he's a very able guy and he's
on the right track
and I'm a I'm a fan of g e--'s in the
sense that that we're a big buyer from
him we're a big seller to him knowing
the managers you know I mean Jack Welch
is a very good friend of mine we don't
agree on politics I never said but we
got a lot of fun together I love the guy
so I've got a great desire for GE to do
well it hasn't it just hasn't looked
that attractive to me
you talked about the growth of trees
down the letter shareholder one was the
third Grove which was sort of the
in-between stakes
yeah the equity interests yeah we're not
is it is it the case that those are sort
of not the healthiest grove of trees no
no the pilot flying case where you know
they were there they're companies that
under GAAP accounting we have to record
under an equity method we own more than
20% but we don't control them and so it
says it it's treated under GAAP
accounting is a special category and and
and it it didn't fit well when the other
grow so I had to make it a separate grow
by itself it's not it's not it's not
that significant a growth well it
depends on circumstances I mean there's
some times when the slope from insurance
can be very valuable there sometimes
when the ability to use production tax
credits will say in the utility business
but have them on our as part of our
consolidated return helps but that
varies a lot but it is a plus and we can
move capital well take a business like
See's candy which we bought 40 odd years
ago it's a wonderful little business it
throws off capital we've tried 50
different ways to expand geographically
do all kinds of things it doesn't work
and we'll try it again and it won't work
but we can move that capital to help by
BNSF railroad or do all kinds of other
things so we've got a seamless and and
and and tax efficient way a moving
capital words needed and we've got some
companies that really chew up capital
and we got others that kick it off and
and we can move it from what one pie if
you try to do that with your investments
that you incur some taxes as you go
along doing it and it's less efficient
than what we've gone
the tax cuts and the benefits to
Berkshire you didn't really get into the
costs of the tax cut which surprised me
a little bit what are the other costs I
mean is it just free money well it makes
a difference the tax cut we get for
example our utilities as I mentioned in
the report that goes to the customers
that's just the nature of utility
regulation but but net we were a
significant beneficiary from the tax I
mean basically let's just say we had one
class of stock we got two but stock you
and I own a business together and we
think we own all the stock but the truth
is before the tax cut the government had
a 35% share of the stock on income no I
didn't have a share of the assets but
had to share the income and if it wanted
to change it to 40 it could have changed
it but fortunately it changed it to 21
and if we had a private business if we
had a McDonald franchise together or an
auto dealership together you know the
third shareholder that invisible
shareholder the government just handed
us back a bunch of the shares of stock
and and and with and our shareholders
benefited a lot of others have they made
a difference since they become vice
chairs and Charlie no they don't they
don't have the interaction they each run
a separate business inside and she does
not think about the other businesses he
thinks about the insurance business and
Gregg does not think about the insurance
business at all and and I think about
the money and the capital and so on but
they running two very big businesses I
mean a Jeets business you know has you
all told at least a couple hundred
billion of assets you know and and and
Greg's business has a hundred and fifty
billion of revenues I mean these are
they both would fit up there toward the
top ten you know or so in the country
had
in terms of value so maybe the top 15
but they're they're very big businesses
oh no no no Charlie and I have a
partnership thinking about the whole
place and we've done it forever you know
and and we still do
well they they they they they have
thirteen billion dollars each including
pension funds that are pension funds
that they they run and and saw a hundred
and seventy three billion we had at
year-end in equities they had well we
got on in 73 Buffy had another eight
billion in pension funds over one
hundred eighty years old
they had 26 between them the Thera
manager they got total discretion on
that they don't ask me at the month end
I look and see what they did they they
don't do much they don't do a lot of
trading or anything but I I look to see
what changes they made and and Todd for
example I mean he made a couple of small
investments in in private placement type
operations and I know what the
businesses do but I can't tell you their
names
you know baby no that was not something
they did that was something I did yeah
[Music]
well that's that's a good question to
which I do not have a good answer I know
I I seat about I know enough about the
club to know I don't know enough about
the cloud okay so Barclays put out a
note they said they were lowering the
estimates for Berkshire for the EPS do
you read that stuff no well I mean I may
read it actually definitely but I don't
see it out to read out put it that way
but there it just doesn't make any
difference at all I mean if I spent time
reading that I wouldn't have a time to
read ten case and we're not gonna do
anything different I don't know what
we're gonna learn as I put in the annual
report and I really think this is unique
I mean we do not prepare financial
statements monthly
Berkshire and there's no other company
would do it but there's no sense doing
it I know I know where the money is I
know what I know how the companies are
doing generally but what difference does
it make because I'm not gonna try and
hit any number for the quarter by you
know having a sale on insurance or doing
something even worse so it and Charlie I
mean he knows he knows where we stand
and we know what businesses are doing
well where's your art and we certainly
know where the money is another one UBS
survey of Berkshire investors says the
five most important things to them are
succession investment performance M&A
opportunities share repurchase insurance
margins do you read that's pretty no but
that I don't disagree I mean I'm glad
somebody understands us yeah well that's
important you know 54 well to go back to
when I started my partnership in 1956
that Berkshire came out of there were
seven people sitting there at a table
having dinner relatives primarily and I
said here's the partnership agreement
it's done under Nebraska law that's four
or five pages you don't need to read it
but I said here's a little half page
what I call the ground rules and I want
you to read these and if you feel okay
about that about the interaction what
the expectations are and all of that
sort of thing then we'll join forces and
if you don't it's fine that other people
you know but we don't we shouldn't be
partners I mean you know if I'm gonna
have a partnership with somebody I want
to be compatible it is you know and when
you have a public company you can't
control who comes in I can't control
some guy that comes in and thinks we
were gonna pay big dividends they're
supposed to stock or something I got so
bye-bye actions and my communications
and everything I want to attract the
people that from the public market that
I want and I want to keep the others
away Costco was built Saul Price who
started the price Club that thing he sat
down and figured out the customer he
didn't want and he set up a system that
would keep away the customer didn't want
who needed not want he didn't want
somebody buying a quart of milk
with somebody behind them with a with a
basket $200 worth of goods waiting for
that so we put in a membership fee and
by putting in the membership page he
killed all the drop in business the
business to belong to the 7-eleven we
want Bircher don't to keep out people
who have expectations about us that are
different than ours I mean good for them
and I hope they find somebody they said
but if you're gonna run a church you
want you want your seats to be filled by
people that are generally want to listen
to your form of religion that and you
don't want it to change every week and
say gee I need a new group and I'll go
out and talk to a bunch of in dusters
and get them to come to my church this
sunny cuz only so many seats in the
church there's a million six hundred
forty five thousand or so a equivalent
shares and those are the seats and I
want them occupied by people that are on
the same page I am there are businesses
I understand and I like the price at
which they're selling relative to their
future prospects I think 10 years from
now that they'll be worth more money
and I feel it's a there's a very high
probability I'm right and I don't think
they're little turn out to be the best
investments at all you know the whole
the whole panoply of things you could do
but I'm pretty sure that they won't
disappoint me you said you're surprised
that interest rates isn't that because
of accommodating central bank's policies
around the world and how deflation area
technology back him up the reasons but
in the end you know does that nobody was
telling me you know if somebody told me
ten years ago what was gonna happen the
next ten years we could have been a lot
of money in the bottom are together you
know but but it's there's always the
reason afterwards tomorrow's paper will
say stocks went down today because of
you know but they didn't they didn't
write it this morning's paper that
soccer can I go down to this
you have to know what you don't know and
you have to make sure that what you
don't know isn't all important I mean
you're if there's four boxes there you
want to get to what is knowable and and
and and and and which is favorable and
there's things that you'll miss out on
because they belong in other three boxes
one of which will be favorable another
one the favorable and the fact that
you're missing out on ninety percent of
the stuff doesn't really make any
difference if the ten percent you do is
right now it doesn't change the
insurance business I've changed no it
would change our insurance business
writing 20-year policies I mean if there
was something that changed life
mortality adversely to the interests of
live insurance company you're stuck with
a policy for twenty years if you write
the life insurance policy and that's you
know you you'll be paying your premiums
of it's adverse to me that's what's
happened in long-term care insurance for
example but when you write a policy free
one year at a time you see what the
developments are and if you know it cars
for example are much safer to drive than
they used to be there used to be 15
deaths per 100 million miles driven now
there's a little over 1 on the other
hand they've become much more expensive
to fix
I mean that little little side right as
I do marry now which I used to cost 10
bucks you know now a thousand bucks or
something like that so so you have
things that are changing in termina if
you're writing collision experient
insurance you got a lot for the fact
that that that that windshield the
bumper all kinds of things are the side
view mirror and all that their way their
marksmanship but if you're writing your
writing liability you know that the that
people aren't gonna die as often there
so climate changes like a climate car
has been changing but that the truth is
that you now can buy really big
catastrophe limits cheaper than you
could buy them in 2005 are there abouts
allowing for changes in the dollar and
and and concentration of population so
so so far rates have come down that's
the reason we've gotten out of the cat
business to a great degree we were the
we were a very big writer of cat
business 10 or 12 years ago we aren't
out of the cat business because the
climate change we're because the prices
aren't right and the world will change
and it's got very serious consequences
but but it won't change that much from
year to year that you know we've done
very well during a period of some
climate change and I'm wondering if
social media and Facebook and Google and
Russian trolls coming in is that maybe
an example of that are you still worried
about that problem well I think cyber
poses real risks humanity forgetting
about the problems even misinformation
I'm just thinking of you know we have
railroads running over 22,000 miles of
track and some of them are carrying
ammonia and some of them returning you
know chlorine and things we have to
carry him we have no choice about that
number required by law to carry him and
you know I would rather I would rather
do that in an on cyber world in a cyber
world I would there are all kinds of
things I the problem by something like
cyber is that it's it's moving and it's
it's just unpredictable whether you'll
get some crazy guy like stuck the
anthrax in there you know what they can
do becomes magnified I mean when when
when you saw what you know 19 guys
didn't you know I mean it tools in the
hands are potentially in the hands of
either crazy individuals crazy groups or
even a few crazy governments you know
are really something and and and and we
don't necessarily know what all the
tools I have are and that is moving all
the time I mean you know again Einstein
said he said I know not with what
what what what weapons World War 3 will
be felt thought but World War 4 will be
fought with sticks and stones you know I
mean it's it's a dangerous world well I
think it has room for improvement he
yeah and he would say the same thing
just some people have a talent for
interesting others have a little bit
more of a blocker up there that says in
a problem and buddies he's a remarkable
guy but I don't see I just don't see the
necessity to communicate you know I've
never I I think I've got seven tweets
because a friend of mine signed me up
for it and she's called me about a
hundred times say can I tweet this or
that and I said yes two or seven times I
guess or something like that I never
actually written one myself I I don't
even know how to do it I joined The
Giving Pledge so I have once or twice
but that's a lot of years ago uh seven
or eight years ago I'm not I mean he
hasn't come to our annual gathering so I
haven't seen him for seven or eight
years we're here with Berkshire
Hathaway's Warren Buffett Y yang perfect
great accent by the way well conduct the
rest of this in Chinese if you'd prefer
[Laughter]
so let's talk about this
with China and I guess I'd like to ask
you do you think that Donald Trump was
right in calling out the Chinese
government and basically putting them on
notice I won't have any comment on that
in terms of political activity I don't
put my citizenship in a bind a blind
trust so when the election comes around
out of their hand
people will interpret things I say about
any any president you know as to some
extent coming from Berkshire and they'd
and they don't come from Berkshire I'm
just an individual so I I you know I
think I'm glad to talk about China but
again I can't talk to you about that
part of it well I think that China and
the United States absolutely are
destined to be the superpowers you know
beyond my great-grandchildren lives and
and we'll always have be competitors and
we'll be competitors and in business
working with the creditors and ideas all
kinds of ways and there's no other way
it would be and we just have to make
sure that that competition doesn't yet
get us to a point where we don't realize
that the best world is one in which both
the United States and China prosper I
mean that we do not want to have an
island of prosperity in the rest of the
world envious of us in a nuclear age and
and China doesn't Russia doesn't I mean
we all recognize the dangers of flooding
competition get out of control and and
and become you can you can be
competitors without being enemies and
and that's that's what all powerful
nations have to realize over time I mean
it's different than 200 years ago when
you could have some dominant country and
then they may have done some things that
you didn't like but it didn't threaten
the existence of the world you really
threaten the existing
the world as we know it if important
countries do not constantly recognize
that they can compete they can fight
over certain things but they can't
regard to this essentially the
equivalent of war NYU professor and he
says but do you think that US and China
will be able to resolve their
differences or our conflicts unavoidable
well I don't think conflicts are
unavoidable but I think I think it has
to be active thinking on the part of
every hugely powerful country and Russia
is hugely powerful I mean 90% of the
nuclear arms in the world between US and
Russia so they they have to recognize
that the best world for them is one
where they don't try and grab all the
apples basically and we have to
recognize that and we can't in the
United States we can't think that either
our ideas run the world you know or we
start getting aggressive about things
and China can't think that Russia can't
think that and
and that's obvious you just have to make
things you gotta be sure things don't
escalate and have World War one you know
with an Archduke you know I mean you get
you get these can get chance incidents
and and you really want to I asked one
of the presidents one time you know in
terms of what he would do it's an
awakened in the middle of night with
somebody coming to him and saying
absolutely and I'm something they also
launched would you launch on that and
you've got ten minutes at the side and I
wouldn't want to have that
responsibility but but you want to make
sure you don't get to that point
and if not aren't you missing a huge
portion of the answer is we would don't
we would have you looked oh we've been
made aware of things some things you are
you concerned the accounting might be
opaque well I'd want to be sure I
understood the accounting obviously then
some businesses that be easier to do
than others but but I know the laws the
customs the accounting the people better
in the United States and I place else so
there's some small hurdle in in many
countries to get over which I can get
over I mean but but I just don't it's
just not as easy as looking at something
where I already know the answer you know
from previous transactions or something
of the sort so so it's easier to make a
big acquisition in the United States
have to do more work if I'm looking
beyond the borders but I love the idea
of doing it when we made these
acquisition Israel a dozen years ago you
know I didn't know what the tax rates
were there I didn't I didn't know what
corporate law you know I was I I
suspected that it would all be answered
satisfactorily which it was but I didn't
just automatically know it I don't think
so
no I know no I I'm open yeah I we made
you know we made two decent-sized stock
acquisitions there and that worked out
fine well PetroChina and BYD
yeah byd was Charlie's but Charlie's
very well-versed on China the the trade
the US trade
a lot of that has to do with our trade
with China is that something that
worries you well I wrote an article
about it for fortune and the the trade
situation many years ago and when when
our deficit got to be large in relation
to GDP I don't think it's I don't think
it's a essential level trade balance but
I I think that a trade deficit gets
large and and it looks like you have no
way out from it that that can be a real
problem over time I mean you know you're
you're shipping little pieces of paper
to the rest of the world and they're
shipping you Goods I mean people are
working making underwear shoes someplace
and they get little pieces of paper from
us and it gets very tempting if you've
done that enough to make sure that those
little pieces of paper aren't worth very
much overtime when they want to cash up
for something so and you don't want to
have we don't have any problem running
trade deficits but but if we ran really
large ones and we sort of worked
ourselves into a box where they were we
didn't really have a solution to get the
numbers down it could be a problem and I
wrote about it one time but it's it's
kind of a nice thing actually just I
mean wouldn't you like to have lower the
targets I think to around six point five
percent six percent are you concerned
about this slowing growth in the
on global markets well I don't worry
about in terms of global markets I mean
China's gonna grow a lot over time I
mean they when you think of what's
happened was in 1949 or you know but
there's been nothing really like it I
mean he had 20 percent of the world's
population at that time perhaps you know
really hadn't remotely achieve their
potential I mean that the intellectual
capacity they had decent soil all kinds
of things I mean and and and what's
happened there almost is beyond belief
and and that game's not over but we've
had incredible developments in the
United States I mean you know real GDP
per capita is six times what it was the
day I was born in the United States six
times and we thought we were pretty
country and everything nope my parents
wouldn't have believed it I mean they
would have thought you know this kid has
really got it made it was true I mean we
had this tailwind and and China's had a
hurricane mine that you know and in the
in recent decades in a good way
absolutely yeah at their back and and
and they've they have found a way of
life that is dramatically different then
existent for the billion there was a
billion then maybe maybe a billion two
or three whatever it is now and and they
have changed a country really of sizes I
don't think it's ever been anything like
it we've done it too but it took a took
somewhat longer I mean or stretched out
but it was a remarkable period but but
you know when you go to I first went
there in 1995 and then they regarded as
a miracle and I went back it was a whole
different country beyond that well I've
said many times that if you get to be
65 or 70 and later and and the people
that you want to have love you actually
do love you you're a success I've never
seen anybody that reaches that age I
mean I'm not talking about somebody
that's an extreme poverty or painters
I'm gonna never seen anybody that if
they have a lot of people that love them
that there's other than happy and I've
seen some very very wealthy people that
give testimonial dinners doing named
schools have sir and everything there is
nobody nobody loves him you know their
own kids would say he's in the Attic
he's in the Attic
okay well I
by far the best investment you can make
is in yourself I mean that for example
communication skills I tell the students
that come that they're going to graduate
schools and business and they're
learning all these complicated formulas
all that if they just learn to
communicate better and both in writing
and person they increase their value at
least 50% no I mean if you can't
communicate somebody he says you know
it's like winking at a girl the dark
nothing happens you know basically and
you have to be able to get get both your
ideas and and that's that's relatively
easy I did it myself with a Dale
Carnegie of course some people wish I'd
take it a shorter course not by talking
later on but it it's just hugely
important and you if you invest in
yourself nobody can take it away from
you I mean you and the second thing
which I'll get a certain criticism for
not living it but but I do tell the
those students you know that if I gave
you a car and it'll be the only car
you're getting them rest of your life he
take care of it like you can't believe
and he scratch you'd fix that moment you
read the owner's manual you keep it
garage into all these things and you get
exactly one mind of one and one body in
this world and and you can't start
taking care of it when you're 50 by that
time you little rust it out if you
haven't done anything so you know you
should really make sure that you just
remember that you just got one mind and
body to get through life with into the
well life advises you know the most
important thing aside from the things
I've talked about already is it's really
who you associate with you want to
associate with people that are better
than you are
I mean basically you'll go in the
direction of the people that you
associate with and and you want to the
right heroes you want people if you want
to emulate somebody you better pick very
carefully who you want to emulate and
and when obviously you can't pick your
parents they're gonna have an enormous
influence on you but you don't get a
choice on that but you get choices as
you go down the line and you who you who
you admire who you who you want to copy
and the most important for most people
in terms of that decision is their
spouse it's also important in terms of a
partner in business but the partner in
life is is the most important you you
want to pick a spouse that's little
that's better than you are and then he
or she and you hope they don't figure it
out too fast
well they try to but they they just
don't realize that all you have to do is
just buy across the stern of America and
they never listen to people like me or
read the papers or do anything
subsequently they think they think that
because you can trade you should trade
they might you buy a farm you buy an
apartment house you can't resell it
tomorrow and I don't know the cost of
moving around or you now you get
something handed to the allah quiddity
you know which is instant and sell and
the cost of doing it or pennies you know
compared to other kinds of investment
activity so because they can so easily
move around they do move around and
moving around is not smarter than
investing what is that well that way and
and I was actually send somebody over to
them now to get me something since since
I sent the publicity I got from earlier
describing my habits at McDonald's
I I now somebody happened had somebody
go in the office but that was that was a
more for entertainment value I I
actually I eat exactly what I like to
eat if I liked it on my sixth birthday
and my sixth birthday party when we had
hot dogs and hamburgers and coke and ice
cream with chocolate I still like it and
I don't care about anything subsequently
that I discovered it all by the time I
was six and if somebody offered me a
deal when I was twenty I said you're
gonna live one year longer and instead
of living to 88 you live 89 or whatever
it may be if nothing but broccoli and
Brussels sprouts and onions and all
these things and I I didn't take the
last year off it probably won't be that
good anyway you know I Manso I eat what
I like did I I am NOT venturesome in
that area I just don't have like onions
I don't put them in the same category
depends on the person and much more than
it depends on the school I mean I
wouldn't worry some people are gonna get
a lot out of advanced education and some
people are going to get very little and
I don't even think it's important that
every person go to college at all I mean
we have all kinds of jobs at 70 or so
thousand a year eighty thousand a year
that college training is is not abuse
and and I actually was not keen on going
to college myself yeah my dad kind of
jolly man whether he can get me to do
anything but and if they'd had an SAT
test those days he would have taken the
test for me but but because I I just I
was III knew I could have a good time
and I liked investing and I didn't
really feel like I could read the books
so I don't you know it's it's a big
commitment to take four years and the
cost involved then maybe the loans
involved that everything and I think
depending on what your interests are
aligned
I don't think I don't think it's for
everybody I think it's for a lot of
people but there ought to be a reason
you're going and I didn't really see
much reason a few do you ever drink
water only under Russian what is your
it's undoubtedly it's my way well I like
the bridge on the river kwai because of
the lot there were a lot of lessons in
that pleasant was a you know enormous
Lee fascinating
yeah yeah Barry but that the ending of
that was sort of the story of life you
know
he created the railroad the enemy to
come in across it you know it well the
favorite book from the best book that
had the most impact on my life was the
Intelligent Investor my bedroom it's
probably going to be would be Nebraskan
some huge bowl gave him winning well I
probably carry maybe $400 oh yeah I
actually my what my wife likes using
cash so I just take home a chunk of cash
every now and then she doles it out she
looks at my billfold and see whether all
the hundreds are gone
it's pretty simple
I've got an American Express card which
I got in 1964 but I I pay cash 98% of
the time if I'm interested always pay
cash it's just easier hello investors
I'm Zac Guzman thank you so much for
checking out the Yahoo Finance YouTube
don't forget to click right here to
subscribe and don't forget to check out
our live market coverage every day from
9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time
right here on the Yahoo Finance you tube
channel